.TH "pscp" "1" "2004\(hy03\(hy24" "PuTTY\ tool\ suite" "PuTTY\ tool\ suite"
.SH "NAME"
.PP
\fBpscp\fP \(hy command-line SCP (secure copy) / SFTP client
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.PP
.nf
\fBpscp\fP\ [\fIoptions\fP]\ [\fIuser\fP\fB@\fP]\fIhost\fP\fB:\fP\fIsource\fP\ \fItarget\fP
\fBpscp\fP\ [\fIoptions\fP]\ \fIsource\fP\ [\fIsource\fP...]\ [\fIuser\fP\fB@\fP]\fIhost\fP\fB:\fP\fItarget\fP
\fBpscp\fP\ [\fIoptions\fP]\ \fB\(hyls\fP\ [\fIuser\fP\fB@\fP]\fIhost\fP\fB:\fP\fIfilespec\fP
.fi
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.PP
\fBpscp\fP is a command-line client for the SSH-based SCP (secure copy) and SFTP (secure file transfer protocol) protocols.
.SH "OPTIONS"
.PP
The command-line options supported by \fIpscp\fP are:
.IP "\fB-V\fP"
Show version information and exit.
.IP "\fB-pgpfp\fP"
Display the fingerprints of the PuTTY PGP Master Keys and exit, to aid in verifying new files released by the PuTTY team.
.IP "\fB-ls\fP"
Remote directory listing.
.IP "\fB-p\fP"
Preserve file attributes.
.IP "\fB-q\fP"
Quiet, don't show statistics.
.IP "\fB-r\fP"
Copy directories recursively.
.IP "\fB-unsafe\fP"
Allow server-side wildcards (DANGEROUS).
.IP "\fB-v\fP"
Show verbose messages.
.IP "\fB-load\fP \fIsession\fP"
Load settings from saved session.
.IP "\fB-P\fP \fIport\fP"
Connect to port \fIport\fP.
.IP "\fB-l\fP \fIuser\fP"
Set remote username to \fIuser\fP.
.IP "\fB-batch\fP"
Disable interactive prompts.
.IP "\fB-pw\fP \fIpassword\fP"
Set remote password to \fIpassword\fP. \fICAUTION:\fP this will likely make the password visible to other users of the local machine (via commands such as `\fBw\fP').
.IP "\fB-1\fP"
Force use of SSH protocol version 1.
.IP "\fB-2\fP"
Force use of SSH protocol version 2.
.IP "\fB-C\fP"
Enable SSH compression.
.IP "\fB-i\fP \fIpath\fP"
Private key file for authentication.
.IP "\fB-scp\fP"
Force use of SCP protocol.
.IP "\fB-sftp\fP"
Force use of SFTP protocol.
.SH "MORE INFORMATION"
.PP
For more information on \fBpscp\fP it's probably best to go and look at the manual on the PuTTY web page:
.PP
\fBhttp://www.chiark.greenend.org.uk/~sgtatham/putty/\fP
.SH "BUGS"
.PP
This man page isn't terribly complete. See the above web link for better documentation.
